As we think about creating the baseboards for our walls here we're also going to need to think about
creating the doors if we go back over to this reference image we can see the baseboard kind of flows
into the frame around the doors and I think I want to go ahead and do that.
So before we work on the baseboards let's work on the doors.
If we look out on the Internet here out on Google I've searched standard door dimensions here in the
United States we've got standard door size of 80 inches by 36 inches or about six feet eight by three
feet.
So I think I want to go for something about that.
Now it also says that eight feet now is very common in newer homes.
This I don't think this is going to be a newer build this is kind of an old run down apartment.
So I think I'll go with the six foot eight maybe even seven feet for the doors and three feet wide for
the width.
So let's work on that.
I think I'll go to a new lair here and just create a cube or go to the Create tab and click on cube
and now it popped in here over where the cursor was.
I don't want that I'm going to undo this with control or command Z.
I'm going to press shift.
See and that will pop the 3D cursor into the center of the grid.
Now come back over here and create a cube and let's hit the N key and take a look at the dimensions
of our cube.
Now remember over here in the scene panel we've got our units of measure we're currently using metric
but temporarily since I know this door is going to be seven feet by three feet wide I'm going to click
Imperial and switch over to that.
So now I can see that the Z-axis here is six feet.
So I'll go ahead and just type 7 into here and that will make this seven feet tall.
And then I think I'll use the x axis here the x axis lets make 3 feet wide.
And there we go.
Now I can press X and Y and scale in and the y axis just a little bit.
But ultimately this is going to be the width and height of our door.
Now if I go back to the metric system here you can see it's done the conversions for us in terms of
meters and centimeters.
So now I want to bring this up so it's sitting on the floor I'm gonna hit the one key and then the five
key on the numpad and I'll just bring this up until it sits on the grid right about there.
Now if I go back to my imperial units of measure I can see that I'm here at 3.5 feet which is half of
seven.
I'll go ahead and clean up that by just typing in 3.5 and now I know that that's sitting squarely or
flat on the grid on the floor there.
All right so now that we know that this is our door size I'm going to hit the five key to go back to
perspective.
We can bring back everything else in our room and take a look at where we're going to put our doors.
So I think maybe beginning is going to be right over here.
We're going to have that front door come in right about here.
Let's say now that we know how big and wide that's going to be I can select the wall tab into edit mode
and I will go ahead and press control r and begin putting some edge loops right where the door is going
to be control are.
Here's the top of the door.
Control our in here this side of the door so I can begin to put these edges right where the door is
going to be.
Yeah that looks good.
That looks good.
OK.
So now we know that that's going to be the size of the door on a tab back into object mode so I can
select just this.
This is on the third letter of someone to press shift and click to hide that.
Now if we tab back into edit mode here I can go to face mode and select these faces and get rid of these.
So I'll hit X and faces.
I also want to get rid of this one here and there is our door now to create the door jamb.
Let's do something a little tricky here.
I want to go to edge mode so I press control tab and the two key to go to edge mode and I want to select
this edge all the way around.
Except I don't want these down here all de-selected these down here.
Now I'm going to bridge these two edge loops so to do that I can press control e to go to the edges
menu and then come down here and go to bridge edge loops and that will just create a face between each
of the edges.
All right so now we have that that's the inside of the door jamb.
Let's split this out and then we can extrude it out to make the door jam extend out over the wall here.
So to do that I'll press the P key and then choose to separate this out by the selection.
Click that.
Now if I tab back into object mode this right here is its own object now.
So I can scale this out a bit in the y axis to extend it beyond the wall just ahead.
So I'll press S and Y and scale that out just a little like that.
Now I it extrude these edges out.
Now I don't really care too much about the outside but if you did we can go ahead and work on that too.
So we'll just do that all at the same time.
I'll tab back into edit mode and I'll select all of these edges once again by by pressing alt and click
on an edge and then shift bolt and click on an edge and that selects these two edges on the inside and
the outside of the room.
I'll then hit e to extrude and then click.
And now I'm going to scale just in the x axis x x and now that moves these out a bit.
So and then are de-select these shift click these shift click these to de-select.
Now theoretically these edges are still selected up here so I can just click and drag in the Z-axis
and pull those up.
So there we have the door jam around the front door.
Now I can select these edges again alt click shift alt click so we select all of those and then we extrude
again hit the e key and click.
And now I want to scale in the y axis to bring that back to the wall so I'll press S and then Y.
And now we scale it back in to the wall right there.
All right.
So there is the front door jam.
Let's go do that to the other wall over here.
So over here on this side of the room we need two doors one kind of at each corner here so I'll bring
back that door template.
Where is it.
There it is and take that over here and maybe put it right in line with the front door perhaps maybe
right there or center it up with the period key on the numpad select that wall tab into edit mode and
then lets put a few edges here as well around the door and let's choose these faces and get rid of these.
And now since I have this door jam created for this door size Why not just take this sense it's its
own object and drag it right on over there.
Now the pivot point or the center of the object is right over here I'm going to move it to the geometry
so it's kind of centered up within that door to do that I'll come over here to the tools tab and we
can use this set origin pull down and click that and choose origin to geometry and that moves that into
the center there.
Now I can just hit shift d click and then click on the y axis here and just drag it right over.
I mean hit the period key and I'll put this right kind of right in here we go.
All right let's do that one more time.
Over on this side.
Move it over here.
Let's try it right about.
I don't know right about there let's say and block it out.
With some edges here I already have the edge for the top of the door Mallet's get rid of that.
Turn off the lever for the door template and let's remove these again.
All right.
And let's just move the door jamb right over there.
Let's go ahead and add the baseboards to the walls.
Now that we have the doors in place let's begin with this one over here.
I'm going to press control r and add an edge right about here.
And once I do now I'm going to press the three key and five key and the Z key and let's take a look
at this in wireframe.
Most are going to press the end key to give myself a little bit more room now.
It looks like I need the one key I'll press the one key to come over to this side.
Now once again I'm going to click and drag with the Z-axis but then I'm gonna to hold that shift key
down so I can move it a little slower and get it right where I want it.
So maybe something like that at something like that.
Now let me do that over here as well.
Move that down to about where I want it.
Write about there.
All right so now we have the size or location of the baseboard in place here.
We just need to use this edge to create them on the other walls as well.
So if we tap back into object mode and select this wall and then put a 1 and 5 key in the z key for
wireframe we can see that we can't see that baseboard.
Why is that.
Well it's because our display settings isn't letting us see all of our edges in object mode.
If I tab and edit mode for this while I still can't see the edges for that other wall because it's a
whole other object.
So do we need to combine those walls together.
No we can just play with the display settings of our objects so we can see that edge.
So if I tumble out of this and just select that wall again I can come over to the objects settings here
and down here under wire and draw all edges.
We can turn these on so we can see the edges.
So now that we've turned on draw all edges I can come back and hit the one key.
Now you can see we can see that edge even though that other object is an object mode.
All right.
So let me select this wall here hit that one key tab into edit mode.
And now we've got a reference here of how big the baseboard should be.
So I'll press control our and click and then bring this down right about there and same thing over here.
Control our and let's do that again right over here.
All right.
So now we have our baseboards.
There we just need to put them over here as well.
Now I can go ahead and turn on the wire and draw edges over here and then I'll hit the three key the
Z key tab into edit mode and we can see this the height of the baseboard and on each of the other walls
here while press control our and just add an edge right there.
Just need it one more time on this wall back here.
Three key tab and one more time.
So in the next video what we need to do is go ahead and U-V map the walls U-V map the door jambs and
then begin thinking about our textures and taking it into unity.